Adding blog post about jig joining openvox (#693)
voxpupuli/voxpupuli.github.io: _posts/2026-06-17-jig-joins-openvox.md

# Jig joins OpenVox
We are pleased to announce that jig has joined the OpenVox project. Jig is a

> fastand dependency-free reimplementation of the Puppet Development Kit (PDK). By

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fast and dependency-free reimplementation of the Puppet Development Kit (PDK). By
```

Author: I have added the header as in the linked document, I have also adjusted my heading levels to match. Additionally, I have fixed the typo you identified.

---
date: 2026-06-17
github_username: avitacco
layout: post
title: Jig joins OpenVox
---

## What is happening

> We are pleased to announce that jig has joined the OpenVox project. Jig is a

Reviewer 2: could you link to jig?

Author: I have linked to the jig repo in the opening sentence now.

---
date: 2026-06-17
github_username: avitacco
layout: post
title: Jig joins OpenVox
---

## What is happening
We are pleased to announce that [jig](https://github.com/voxpupuli/jig) has

> joined the OpenVox project. Jig is a fast and dependency-free reimplementation

Reviewer 2: so it joined Voxpupli?  is this more accurate?
```suggestion
joined the Voxpupli project. Jig is a fast and dependency-free reimplementation
```

---
date: 2026-06-17
github_username: avitacco
layout: post

> title: Jig joins Voxpupuli

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Jig joins Vox Pupuli
```

---

## What is happening
We are pleased to announce that [jig](https://github.com/voxpupuli/jig) has
<<<<<<< HEAD
joined the Voxpupli project. Jig is a fast and dependency-free reimplementation
of the Puppet Development Kit (PDK). By bringing it under the OpenVox umbrella,
we are providing the community with a reliable and sustainable module-authoring
tool that is maintained in a neutral, long-term environment.

> =======

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> joined the Voxpupuli project. Jig is a fast and dependency-free reimplementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
joined the Vox Pupuli project. Jig is a fast and dependency-free reimplementation
```

Author: I have made this change.

> of the Puppet Development Kit (PDK). By bringing it under the Voxpupuli

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the Puppet Development Kit (PDK). By bringing it under the Vox Pupuli
```

Author: I have made this change.

umbrella, we are providing the community with a reliable and sustainable
module-authoring tool that is maintained in a neutral, long-term environment.

> >>>>>>> fb386ce (Replacing all of the Openvox instances with Voxpupuli)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: I have made this change.

### What jig does
Jig is designed to support the daily tasks involved in authoring Puppet modules.
It provides scaffolding for new modules, classes, defined types, facts,
functions, providers, tasks, transports, and tests, ensuring that the standard 
directory layout and specification files are generated automatically.

Jig also assists with building and packaging modules for distribution on the
Forge. It supports validation and unit testing, running the necessary checks
that are expected prior to a release. Jig streamlines the process of creating
versioned releases.

What distinguishes jig is its delivery as a single static binary, requiring
neither a Ruby runtime nor any external dependencies. Once downloaded and placed
in your system path, it is immediately operational. There is no need for
bundler, no risk of gem conflicts, and no requirement for a large runtime in
your continuous integration environments. This approach results in fast cold
starts in CI and a straightforward, single-file setup for developers.

> ### Why it matters for Voxpupuli

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Why it matters for Vox Pupuli
```

With the transition of PDK to a closed-source model, the open Puppet ecosystem

> lost a tool that many module authors had depended on for years. Voxpupuli was

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lost a tool that many module authors had depended on for years. Vox Pupuli was
```

established to ensure that this ecosystem remains open and governed by the
community, and providing robust module tooling is a key aspect of that mission.

> Jig has always been open source, and its move into Voxpupuli ensures that it is 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jig has always been open source, and its move into Vox Pupuli ensures that it is 
```

Author: I have made this change.

no longer dependent on a single individual's account or availability. Issues,
releases, and the project roadmap are now managed within the community,

> allowing the tool to evolve alongside the broader Voxpupuli toolchain and to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allowing the tool to evolve alongside the broader Vox Pupuli toolchain and to
```

benefit from a wider range of contributors.

### Thanks
Jig has already been strengthened by the efforts of early contributors and
testers. I would like to extend particular thanks to Ben Ford and Martin Alfke
for their contributions and feedback, as well as to everyone who provided issues
and tested the tool during its initial development.

### Try it
If you are involved in authoring Puppet modules, I encourage you to try jig and
share your experiences, both positive and negative. The repository is now

> maintained within the Voxpupuli organization, and contributions are welcome. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
maintained within the Vox Pupuli organization, and contributions are welcome. 
```

Author: I have made this change.
